             Changes in version 2.16beta with respect to 2.15 
                      Vienna,   June  2001

1. EXFOR retrieval using FORTRAN instead of UNIX 'grep'
2. Fission barrier set to 1000 MeV for Z<19
3. GDR second hump energy set to 0 for spherical nuclei
4. Temperature in the generalized Lorenzian protected against 0 excitation
   energy
5. Plotc4.f improved (A. Trkov) to allow for up to 23 data sets to be drawn
   on a single plot. Plotc4 input modified to include whole energy range.
6. Orion calculations performed up to 99% of the maximum energy loss
   (instead of 90% that happen to cause problems with extrapolation to
   low outgoing energies)
7. Plotc4.f improved (A. Trkov) to allow for energy spectra and
   angular distributions plots. 
8. Legend and lsttab added for future improvements but not fully 
   implemented yet.
9. ENDF=2 option added (lumped channel representation MT=10 or 5).
   SO FAR DDX ARE NOT SUPPORTED BY EMPEND!!!!
10.Exact treatment of recoil spectra with ENDF=2 option.
11.Call to Monte Carlo preequilibrium model HMS coded by M.B. Chadwick.
   NO TRANSFER OF THE RESULTS!!!!
12.Exciton model code DEGAS implemented by P. Oblozinsky   
13.Fixed bug in flux conservation when GST option selected but
   MSC gamma channel closed.
14.New version of SCAT2 introduced by R. Capote
15.Link to ECIS for calculation of the elasic, absorption and cross 
   sections to discrete collective levels within rotational and 
   vibrational CC model.  Includes automatic selection of collective 
   levels (R. Capote). 
16.Link to the omp segment of RIPL introduced by R. Capote. NOTE: change
   in the format and name of the local file with internal omp. New name
   is *-omp.int and two columns are added in definition of om potentials
   (just before radii). RIPL potentials are stored in the file *-omp.ripl.
17.New version of V. Zerkin viewer (zvv93l.exe)
18.List of RIPL omp added to the GUI under Help menu
19.DWBA option  with ECIS added by R. Capote
20.pol20, pol21 and pol22 variables in SCAT2 initialized with 0.
21.Bug in ACCUMSD when MSD transitions to continuum were energetically closed
   fixed (seems had no effect on the results).
22.Total cross section added to EXFOR retrieval and together with fission to 
   the MT list for ZVView plotting.
23.'zvpl' script added for plotting excitation function for any cross section 
   from the main EMPIRE output (*.lst)
24.'run-piece-wise' script aded for running up to 3 different inputs for the 
    same case in the 3 non-overlapping energy ranges (incident energies inside 
    and among the 3 ranges must increase monotonically). 
25.Division by 0 in fitting field parameters in MSD-tristan.f protected.     
26.GUI modified to include 'zvpl' script and allow for merging ZVV plots. 
27.Form factor for the l=0 transitions in MSD controled from the optional
   input (default: compressional)
28.Provision for use of combined preequilibrium models in a single run.
29.'zvcomb' script added to combine various existing ZVView plots.
30.Utility code manuals and general hints added to the GUI under Help menu
31.Utility code inputs accessible from the GUI Options menu
32.Utility code c4sort added to sort *.c4 file in ascending energy. Actually,
   it is disabled (commented) in run and runE scripts as it takes long
   for large files.

Known bugs:

1. Fission is wrong when HRTW is active
2. Slight inconsistency with DIRECT=1,2,3 option - last coll. level(s) is 
   included in the fusion renormalization but may be excluded from 
   actual calculations as being above the last accepted level.

To do:

- adjust energy for the ddx spectra in EMPEND to account for the recoils
- add interpolation on ECIS Tl file to allow for different incident 
  energies
- complete data transfer from HMS 
- clean mixed character and numerical data in commons in tl.f

             Changes in version 2.15 with respect to 2.14.1
                      Vienna,   November    2000

1. plotting of double differential cross sections for neutron production 
   using PLOTC4 (modified by A. Trkov) added. This involves modification
   of EXFOR retrieval (new REAC_SIG.TXT file, changes in the 'sel' script 
   and input.f), as well as modifications in the util/x4toc4/reaction 
   file.
2. printout of total and shape elastic cross sections, shape elastic 
   angular distributions, strength functions, and scattering radius from 
   SCAT-2 activated.
3. minimum Tl set to 1.0E-10 to avoid underflow in the calculations. This
   limit might be changed in the line 761 of tl.f

             Changes in version 2.14.1 with respect to 2.14
                      Vienna,   October    2000

1. bug fixes:
       - flux conservation at very low incident energies (in HRTW)
       - mismatch of elastic channels for negative parity targets (in HRTW)
       - division by zero 1p-0h level density in MSC gamma emission
       - undefined variables in MSC-NVWY.f and MSD-tristan.f defined (KASE
         in MSD-orion.f still remains undefined, Z1 and Z2 do not make any
         problem since unused)
2. MATIN1 replaced by MTXINV in MSC gamma emission       
3. VMS specific statements marked with *-IF VMS in input.f and io.h
4. print of C.M. incident energy to standard output added in main.f
       
             Changes in version 2.14 with respect to 2.13
                      Vienna,   September  2000

1.  second chance preequilibrium emission applying M.B. Chadwick model
    to the result of the MSD
2.  bug in clearing the population of discrete levels when ENDF option used
    fixed
3.  bug in writing optical model parameters for the incident channel on the 
    ompar file fixed.
4.  SHC(2)=SHC(1) bug in main.f fixed
5.  miss-print for 95-Zr in data/ldp.dat(7676) fixed by setting the value to 0
6.  redundant FLOAT in ORION2 removed
7.  Collective level densities with a=A/LEVDEN used whenever LEVDEN.GT.2.0 
8.  Star format for recoil mass replaced by the fixed one
9.  Alphanumeric branching ratios in orsi.liv replaced by numbers and input.f
    changed appropriately (BCDNUM removed)
10. HRTW formulation of the statistical model included (width fluctuation
    correction).
11. Bug causing use of Weisskopf estimates for gamma strength at all incident
    energies except the first one fixed.
12. Bug in passing GDR parameters through input removed.    
13. Zerkin's zvd plotting capability added (through zvd script and tcl/tk GUI).
14. EXFOR entries for neutron capture coded as SIG,,AV (averaged cross sections)
    included in plots.

    
             Changes in version 2.13 with respect to 2.12.2
                      Vienna,   March 2000 

1.  general clean-up of the Fortran source
2.  new organization of modules that reflects physical contents
3.  check whether  MSD cross section is not larger than the fusion 
    cross section
4.  gamma cascade in the first CN is default if CN excitation 
    energy is below 20 MeV and can be controlled with GCASC 
    in optional input 
5.  l=0 transfer strength in MSD-orion set to the self-consistent 
    value by default (rather than to GMR energy as before)
6.  fusion cross sections read from the file name.fus are treated as
    fusion cross sections at subsequent l values (starting with l=0) 
    rather than fusion cross sections to a given spin of CN. Transmission
    coefficients are calculated from the read values and a proper angular 
    momentum and parity coupling is performed to obtain Compound Nucleus spin
    distribution.  
7.  error in BCS blocking in TRISTAN removed
8.  BCS blocking in TRISTAN made automatic (no input required)
9.  pipe.c replaced with the one by R. Capote
10. automatic retrieval of EXFOR data 
11. link to EMPEND to create ENDF formatted file
12. link to X4TOC4 and PLOTC4 to produce plots at the end of the run 
13. fission barriers for Z>102 according to Myers&Swiatecki Phys. Rev. C60 1999
14. FITLEV creates a whole set of cumulative plots without interaction
15. Fusion barrier can be read from  input (BFUS)
16. Bass option for fusion disabled 
17. Distributed fusion barrier model now relies on the CCFUS fusion barrier
18. OMPAR (.omp) file with optical model parameters produced and used for
    input

	     Changes in version 2.12.2 with respect to 2.12.1
                      Vienna,  11 April 1999

1. energy shift used to fit low energy discrete levels gradually decreased
   between Ecut and neutron binding to recover agreement with Dobs.
2. entire code checked with FTNCHEK and some errors corrected (undefined 
   variables, unreferenced ones removed).
3. all DO loops given separate endings (END DO, no labels)
4. entire code consistently indented.


	     Changes in version 2.12.1 with respect to 2.12
                      Vienna,  07 Dec. 1998

1. dsource directory added with explicit double precision source (no compiler
   -r8 option required).
2. roign.f routine replaced by roemp.f. It fits dynamical level densities 
   (BCS approach below critical energy) to discrete levels by applying an
   energy shift. ATTENTION: for the time being these shifts destroy agreement 
   with Dobs at neutron binding. 


	     Changes in version 2.12 with respect to 2.11
                      Vienna,  15 Sept. 1998

1. Error in the determination of pairing corrections in readnix.f (in the 
   case of Gilbert-Cameron) removed.

2. Errors in coding of the dynamical level densities removed.

3. New, EMPIRE specific, systematics of level density parameter 'a' for 
   dynamical level densities introduced and set as default if dynamical
   level density chosen. This systematics fits Ilijnov-Mebel D-observed 
   using EMPIRE formulae for l.d.  If an experimental value for a given 
   nucleus is present in the ldp.dfat file it is taken. Average normalization
   factor is calculated for these cases and applied for the remaining ones 
   for which there is no experimental value. All nuclei are treated as deformed
   as far as the collective enhancement is concerned. Temporarily 
   damping of the collective effects has been removed, i.e. level densities are
   calculated in the adiabatic approach.

